
                    Fourmilab Spring Launcher
                          User Guide

If you're afflicted with irritating roadrunners trespassing on
your land, try this spring launcher: It Might Just Work!  When
an avatar sits on the launcher, the spring is triggered and
avatar and launcher are hurled into the sky, around 300 metres
with the default settings.  After a specified interval (12
seconds by default), the user will be booted off the launcher in
mid-air and fall to the ground (unless they start to fly and
land more gracefully).  The launcher immediately returns to its
starting location to welcome the next adventurer/victim.

The launcher is a fully functional flying vehicle.  While riding
the launcher, the avatar can use the arrow keys to steer it and
the Page Up and Page Down keys to ascend and descend.  This only
affects the position of the launcher while the avatar is seated;
as soon as the avatar stands up, or is booted off, the launcher
will still return to its original location.  Settings (see
below) allow configuring the launcher as a pure flying machine,
without the automatic launch and timed bail out, or to allow an
avatar to turn off the bail out by taking control of the
launcher and fly it manually.

You can control the Spring Launcher with the following commands
sent to local chat channel /1949 (the year the first Wile E.
Coyote and Road Runner cartoon appeared).

    access [owner/group/public]
        Set which classes of users can send commands via chat.
        The who parameter should be one of public (anybody),
        group (members of the group to which the device
        belongs), or owner (owner of the device only).  The
        owner is always able to send commands regardless of this
        setting.  Default owner.

    channel n
        Change the chat channel on which the device listens for
        commands to n.  The new channel is echoed in chat to
        confirm the change.  The channel is reset to the default
        by the restart command.  Default 1949.

    help
        Give this document to the requester.

    restart
        Perform a hard restart, equivalent to creating a new
        copy of the device.  If the chat channel has been
        changed, it is reset to the default (1949, unless you've
        changed it by editing the script).  If you unlink pieces
        of the Spring Launcher, modify them, and then link them
        back together, be sure that the root prim (the one you
        link last) is the launcher and that you perform a
        restart command before using the launcher.

    set variable args
        Set the named variable to the given argument(s).  The
        following variables may be set.

        bail t
            Set the bail-out time to t in seconds.  An avatar
            who sits on the launcher will be kicked off after
            the specified number of seconds.  If you set t to 0,
            the avatar will not be forcefully ejected and may
            fly the launcher using the navigation keys and stand
            up when done.  Default 12 seconds.

        flight on/off
            Controls "flight" mode.  By default, this is off,
            and while an avatar launched can fly the platform
            with the navigation keys, they will still be bounced
            off at the end of the bail interval.  If set to on,
            pressing any of the navigation keys will transform
            the launcher into a vehicle the avatar can fly as
            long as they wish, until standing up to end the
            flight.  Upon entering flight mode, the spring below
            the platform will be contracted. While setting
            flight mode on or off is controlled by the access
            command described above, if flight mode is enabled
            any avatar seated on the platform may fly it.
            Default off.

        impulse n
            Set the impulse applied to launch the platform when
            an avatar sits on it.  The larger the impulse, the
            higher the launcher will go.  If you set n to 0, the
            platform will not be launched and the avatar may fly
            it with the navigation keys.  Unless you also set
            bail to 0, the avatar will still be ejected after
            the bail-out time.  Default 25.

        pause t
            Set the pause in seconds between the time when the
            avatar sits and the platform is launched and the
            avatar's departing and the launcher descending.  If
            you set this too short, you won't hear the sound
            effects at full volume.  In addition, due to an
            apparent race condition in handling scripting
            events, if you set pause lower than 0.5 the launcher
            will intermittently fail to launch when an avatar
            sits on it.  Default 0.5 seconds.

        trajectory x y z
            Sets the trajectory upon which the platform is
            launched when an avatar sits on it.  Specify x, y,
            and z as floating point values in the region
            co-ordinate system.  If you have a "skybox" floating
            above your land with a terrace surrounding it, you
            can put a spring launcher at ground level which
            flings people to arrive on the terrace in a much
            more exciting manner than mundane teleportation.
            It's fussy getting the trajectory set correctly, but
            worth it.  The default of 0 0 1 launches the
            platform straight up.  The trajectory values are
            normalised to a magnitude of 1: for example "10 20
            30" is equivalent to a setting of "0.17 0.33 0.5".

    status
        Shows the current status of the device.

Details

    The Spring Launcher is supplied with full Copy and Modify
    permissions; you are free to make as many copies as you wish
    and to modify the model, script, and documents in any way
    without any restrictions whatsoever.  You are not, however,
    permitted to transfer or share the object with another
    user.  The reason for this is that the spring model used in
    the launcher:
        https://marketplace.secondlife.com/p/Heavy-Duty-Mesh-Spring-10-Coil-Black-FULL-PERM/6568283
    although sold with full permissions, has a user license
    which prohibits builds that incorporate it being sold with
    full permissions.  In order to allow you full copy and
    modify permissions on this object, it is necessary to
    prohibit transfer.  In a future version of this object I may
    replace this spring with a model of my own, which will allow
    removing this restriction.

    If you install the launcher too close to the ground,
    particularly in uneven terrain, when you sit on it it may
    move horizontally instead of launching vertically.  This is
    due to the launcher, which is a physical object as vehicles
    must be, colliding with the terrain and having its course
    altered.  To correct the problem, simply move the launcher
    up a bit so it clears the terrain.

Acknowledgements

    The coil spring used in this object is the:
        COZI Heavy Duty Mesh Spring - 10 Coil, Black, FULL PERM
    available in the Second Life Marketplace at:
        https://marketplace.secondlife.com/p/Heavy-Duty-Mesh-Spring-10-Coil-Black-FULL-PERM/6568283
    The original model was scaled in the vertical axis to create
    the compressed spring for the idle launcher.

    The sound effects are free clips available from:
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/
    The launch sound is "Comical Comic Bang" (SFX 43134196):
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/product/comical-comic-bang-01/
    and the sound when an avatar is booted off the platform is
    "Punch 02" (SFX 43343773):
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/product/punch-02/
    Both of these effects are © Copyright Finnolia Productions
    Inc. and distributed under the Standard License:
        https://www.soundeffectsplus.com/content/license/
    The sound clips were prepared for use in this object with
    the Audacity sound editor on Linux.

    The Wile E. Coyote avatar used to illustrate the launcher
    in flight on its Marketplace page is available from:
        https://marketplace.secondlife.com/p/WILE-E-COYOTE-AVATAR-MESH-COMPLETE/17799849

License

This product (software, documents, images, and original models)
is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0
International License.
    http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode
You are free to copy and redistribute this material in any
medium or format, and to remix, transform, and build upon the
material for any purpose, including commercially.  You must give
credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes
were made.  If you remix, transform, or build upon this
material, you must distribute your contributions under the same
license as the original.

The coil spring model incorporated in this product is licensed
as described in the Marketplace page cited above under
"Acknowledgements".
